Harmful languge
===

Many things can be said that are not directly bigoted, but rather seek to enable bigotry. /r/lgbt exists to be free of bigotry, and enabling or tolerating bigotry sets an unwanted precedent. Many of these comments are, or at least pass off as ignorance or a lack of awareness and perspective; however, refusing to demonstrate a [willingness to learn](https://github.com/MissTeapot/LGBT-Wikis/blob/main/github_wiki/lgbt/rules#wiki_rule_2.md) will require moderators to intervene.
  
**[Return to the Rules page](https://github.com/MissTeapot/LGBT-Wikis/blob/main/github_wiki/lgbt/rules#wiki_harmful_language.md).**

## Appropriation
----

Appropriation is the act of using somebody's identity as a tool for your own social progression, often watering down their identity into a convenient standard or otherwise taking their struggles for your own. This is done to and by LGBT communities. For example, as mentioned in the [section on racism](https://github.com/MissTeapot/LGBT-Wikis/blob/main/github_wiki/lgbt/offensive_content#wiki_racism.md), racial and LGBT discrimination are unique forms of oppression, and to compare one to another forces the entire movement to conform into the mold of another identity. Do not take this as an acceptance of bigoted remarks; /r/lgbt supports civil rights and women's rights, and [racism](https://github.com/MissTeapot/LGBT-Wikis/blob/main/github_wiki/lgbt/offensive_content#wiki_racism.md) and [sexism](https://github.com/MissTeapot/LGBT-Wikis/blob/main/github_wiki/lgbt/offensive_content#wiki_sexism.md) are both not allowed.

* "Gays are the new blacks" goes beyond simply drawing a parallel between the two movements, trying to force them into identical standards. For starters, it completely ignores the fact that gay liberation and civil rights both happened during the same time period, and furthermore it sets a notion that racial discrimination is 'over' and can move aside for something more important. It also forces the queer movement to conform to another unique and incomparable movement, anything done that is 'unlike the civil rights movement' is discouraged.
* "Men are only afraid of being approached by gay people because they don't want to be treated the same way they treat women" tries to reduce homophobia to an issue of sexism when in reality the two can and do exist independently of one another and as important as it is to eliminate both, in no way does one overshadow or consume the other.
* "Religion is the root of LGBT discrimination" is in direct contradiction of the many queer religious individuals and pro-LGBT tolerant institutions that exist today. While many religious communities are explicitly discriminatory, trying to associate LGBT activism with the disestablishment of religion as a whole is disingenuous.
* If you are identifying two-spirit, please be aware and respectful of the cultural and historical contexts which surround it.

Furthermore, misuse of 'queer' or 'LGBT' or 'sexual minority' is not only not recommended but absolutely not allowed. Paraphilia and fetishism is not an identity. Throughout the contemporary queer movement, these movements have tried to piggyback on LGBT progress, while others who try to force the status-quo link the two together to try and associate LGBT with pedophiles and zoophiles. Any attempt to draw parallels or otherwise appropriate queerness and queer culture is a bannable offense; /r/lgbt will not host any sophomoric or ignorant "debate" about whether or not pedophilia and homosexuality are "linked" as it is an abject form of homophobia and transphobia and has no place in an LGBT Safe Space.

Any defense for nonconsexual sex is a bannable offense.

For other paraphilias that take place between two or more consenting human adults, understand that rights movements for people who participate in those paraphilias are fundamentally different than rights movements centered around sexual or gender identity. Trying to argue otherwise does a disservice to both GSM people and the GSM movement, as well as people who share your paraphilia and any activism regarding it. Attempting to ride on the coattails of the GSM rights movement in order to advocate for a paraphilia is incredibly disrespectful, and as the fight for GSM rights isn't over, won't even work well at all in advancing whatever rights a particular paraphilia advocacy campaign seeks.

## Bigotry has no impact
----

Please do not make light of or refuse to acknowledge bigotry when it is noted. Distasteful comments affect everyone differently, as all responses are affected by our experiences. While, for example, one may jokingly throw slurs around in their circle of friends, another may have experienced those same words under worse circumstances. Please be respectful and do not try to undermine one's experiences with oppression just because you yourself do not percieve it as such. Bigotry implicitly carries with it the baggage of hatred and this subreddit aims to exist free of it.
  
* "It's just a word," attempts to minimize it to 'caring about strangers on the Internet,' and so on; words, for some, can easily be brushed off. Sticks and stones. However, these sticks and stones are supplemented by these words; this implicit hatred is not one that can easily be shrugged off. To some of us, it is just a word, but to many it is so much more and so much worse.
* "My friends are all right with it," its great that they live in an environment where these words are not so powerful nor dangerous as others; however, r/lgbt welcomes people from every environment and not all of these environments are so kind. Just because someone else once said it was alright to be a bigot does not mean that it isn't bigotry, and this subreddit seeks to be free of it.
* "Only if you care about the word will you give it impact," the weight behind those words are purely societal, but that's no excuse to start throwing them around. A movement to take back the word is one thing, a single person shouting it is hurtful. This subreddit is not the place for you to make your stand.
* "I wasn't being serious," "Its just a joke," "Its ironic/satire," trying to find humor in harm is a perfectly legitimate way to cope with it, but not here. Trying to make jokes of things that are very serious to other people not only makes this space uncomfortable for many, but gives off the impression that bigotry is okay when light-hearted or casual.
* "There are worse things" or "if we focused on this then we will water down true bigotry," as everyone has different experiences, we all have different experiences with bigotry as well. Trying to compare one problematic thing with another may make sense to a single person, but in reality it is purely subjective, apples and oranges. Trying to undermine focus on one issue is derailing and distasteful.
* "This is a safe space for us to use these words without impact," again, we cannot pretend that these words have no impact within the space. This is a safe space for queers, but more importantly is is a safe space *from* bigotry. The word and the meaning cannot be separated so easy, so the bigotry follows the word no matter what.

## Bigotry has positive impact
----

Reclamation is a wonderful idea, but a terrible excuse. Whether a word could, let alone should, be reclaimed is not a claim one person can make, especially in a safe space where many of us see the words in the contexts of their histories. Saying you've dropped the baggage a word carries does not actually strip it of its weight. Furthermore, it encourages the perpetuation of the word within the safe space; by all means do your best to reclaim it elsewhere, but not somewhere where people come to escape it. Using slurs which do not affect you (for example, trans* insults as a cis person, slurs against sexuality as someone who is straight) is absolutely not allowed.

## Tone policing
----

Attacking the way someone presents their statement is a common way to disregard their points and derail the conversation. People can react to bigotry in different ways, and one's level of passion or emotion does not change the legitimacy or effectiveness or 'correctness' of their reaction. Telling people to stop talking about something because of they way they argue adds nothing to the discussion, and furthermore seeks to silence any further comment.
  
There are, however, lines not to cross. This subreddit does not condone witch-hunts, death threats and comments about suicide, or any other extremely hostile acts.
  
* "You're way too emotional about this," or "you'll catch more flies with honey than with vinegar," the most common example of tone policing. Refusing to acknowledge bigotry or trying to erase opposition to it by disregarding an emotional response further enables bigotry.
* "They need to be educated, not berated" and "why are you wasting your breath on them"  are both reactions to methods of reaction; while one person may respond emotionally, or describe their personal experience as evidence against bigotry, another may try to be as neutral as possible, and refer to statistics and education more than personal experience. Neither of these methods are wrong. However, exclaiming that one is 'better' than the other and therefore should replace it is. Both methods have their place in the fight for equality.
* "Be happy with what you've got," "Why are you turning away our allies?" are two examples of attacking someone who is responding to bigotry stated by a self-proclaimed ally, a common tactic of [concern trolls](https://github.com/MissTeapot/LGBT-Wikis/blob/main/github_wiki/lgbt/rules#wiki_concern_trolling.md). If people are well-off enough to make do with half-baked support, then that's great; however, the many of us who are affected by the negligence of full support, or recieve the short end of the stick of a compromise, are not only unaffected by another's empty praise, but hurt by the failure to acknowledge our struggles.
* "Learn to compromise." In the struggle for equality, settling for 'lesser but not so lesser' is out of the question. Compromise has been a false promise since the beginning of queer rights, and every compromise made has left at least some of us in the dark, while the supposed 'victory' kills our momentum. Many people can and will be very legitimately upset at the idea of compromise, and to disregard this enables for their voices to be erased.
* "You're making mountains out of molehills" or "You're putting way too much effort on something so insignificant," an example of [underrepresenting bigotry](https://github.com/MissTeapot/LGBT-Wikis/blob/main/github_wiki/lgbt/rules#wiki_bigotry_has_no_impact.md) in the context of tone, undermines somebody's argument by claiming they are putting too much effort into something minor.
* "It would be better to be patient with them," much like compromising, seeks to disregard the experiences and emotions of people affected by oppression; asking them to wait and watch someone continue to make problematic statements and not to intervene is in incredibly poor taste.

## Silencing
----

Whenever a person, not identifying as GSM, discusses their partners, social encounters, socially gendered activites, or a whole slew of other aspects of our lives, these discussions are considered 'normal' by society. Cisheteronormative lifestyles are taken completely for granted, to the point where nobody actually realizes that they are broadcasting their identities in the first place. When people discuss gendered discussions—fashion and social activity, for example—or sexual and romantic discussions—crushes and flirting, openly discussing sexuality, and so on—that do not match the decisions society has imposed on us, it is considered out of place. In reality, straight cis people are discussing all of these things just as much, but in a heteronormative manner.
  
In non-lgbt spaces, where actions and intentions are assumed and judged before we have a say in the manner, we can catch a lot of heat for speaking about these things, for "cramming them down people's throats." We hope to have an open space here for this sort of discussion, and as a result we frown upon people trying to silence it. Things like "you talk about [queer] too much" or "I don't like those gays who you just *know* are gay from the moment you see them," and, more subtly, "I don't disapprove of anything done if its in the bedroom behind closed doors" all show signs of silencing. If people come into the subreddit with troubles, blaming it on acting too queer is harmful language.

## Concern trolling and bad faith
----

Originally, the term 'concern trolling' involved someoneone knowingly affiliating themselves with an opinion, and then making attacks from the supposed perspective of a supporter in order to try to force change on the cause; under the assumption that a criticism is constructive, or that they need to accommodate for the troll, the community regresses. Today, the term has expanded beyond conscious and malicious intent to generally any argument in bad faith.
  
Making a bigoted comment out of ignorance is possible, and those who make them will be corrected. However, if you continue to push your bigotry, whether it be because you are a bigot or simply because you hate being wrong, it is clear that you are not demonstrating a [willingness to learn](https://github.com/MissTeapot/LGBT-Wikis/blob/main/github_wiki/lgbt/rules#wiki_rule_2.md). Claiming ignorance or support will no longer help people who refuse to back down on problematic opinions.
  
* "Flamboyancy hurts gay people" is pretty much the physical manifestation of tone policing and silencing; looking 'too queer' hurting the fight for equality is a far-too-common argument, better stated "I would love gay people if they were just straight."
* "Why is the T in LGBT?" Gender has, is, and always will be, a core aspect of queerness. Asking why there is no fight 'just for sexuality' is an active attempt to erase trans* people.
* "Being so upset drives away allies (like me)," again, tone policing, in the context of concern trolling; making mention of how much we will be supported if we were just nicer.
* "I used to be an ally, but then I was hurt by your words" is a common and laughable response to being called out on bigotry; if a few words on the internet can change your mind about whether or not we deserve to be equal to everyone else, then you weren't much of an ally to begin with.