---
revision_id: 3996c4a8-e307-11e5-9d19-0e65ea16e043
revision_date: 1457205587
---

## Receiving OHIP-funded surgery through CAMH in Ontario

**Update March 2016**: The Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care has now expanded access to referrals for transgender surgery. Ontarians can now see other health care providers besides CAMH to obtain a recommandation for OHIP-funded surgery. [Details here.](http://health.gov.on.ca/en/pro/programs/srs/default.aspx) It is not yet clear what "appropriate training" a physician would need in order to recommend a patient for surgery.

**Update Feb 2016**: The wait list for an initial appointment at CAMH is growing longer, to at least 24 months for new referrals. We still recommend getting on this wait list ASAP if you want or even might want your surgery funded. The Ministry of Health has announced its plan to give more clinics the ability to recommend patients for surgery funding, but there is no guarantee on when this will come into effect. Official statement [here](http://www.camh.ca/en/hospital/care_program_and_services/specialty_clinics/Documents/GIC_Clinic_Update-Feb2016.pdf).

**Update June 2015** by /u/whatthephoton: *CAMH no longer does referrals for hormone therapy. I know a few people whose family doctors referred them to CAMH with the assumption that CAMH would get them access to hormones.*

**Update March 2015** by [u/AntiScanty](http://www.reddit.com/r/ftm/comments/2ywi4v/our_community_faq_needs_your_help_in_expanding/cpdq3uv): *Now they have a central intake system with one number. Calling the gender clinic will just get you sent there. Also, they don't send out a questionnaire anymore. 7 weeks after my doctor sent my referral, I got a letter saying I am now waiting 18-20 months for initial assessment. Also in the letter is a list of things to do in the meantime, like gather supporting documents, get some exercise, read up on the procedures, etc.*

**August 2014**: OHIP currently funds top surgery, hysterectomy, and bottom surgery for trans men. If you have a valid OHIP card, you are entitled to these services. However, you must first be evaluated and approved for the surgery through a specific process. Funding for surgery can only be released after a recommendation from the [Gender Identity Clinic at the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health](http://www.camh.ca/en/hospital/care_program_and_services/hospital_services/Pages/gid_guide_to_camh.aspx) (CAMH) in Toronto. 

In the past, CAMH has been notorious in the trans community as a gatekeeper that turned down many people for questionable reasons. However, the CAMH gender clinic underwent great changes starting in 2009 and now the staff in charge are entirely different people. Many of their notorious practices such as turning down gay trans people, heavily scrutinizing peoples’ presentation, and requiring lengthy real-life experience, have now changed for the better. There are still restrictions in wait time and choice of surgeon, but if you lack the financial means to pay out-of-pocket for surgery, consider undertaking the process for OHIP funding. 

1. Have your current physician refer you to the CAMH gender clinic through [this form](http://www.camh.ca/en/hospital/care_program_and_services/Referrals_to_CAMH/Documents/CAMH_Referral_Form.pdf). Have this done as soon as you know you might want surgery funded by OHIP, because the wait time for a first appointment is around 12 months. (They are not trying discourage you; the clinic is just severely understaffed.) A week after your referral is sent, contact the clinic’s administrator by phone or email to confirm that your referral was received. They will mail you a paper questionnaire which asks you to describe your life history as it relates to gender. Some of the questions might not make sense because they were developed several decades ago and are targeted to MTF spectrum trans people. Don’t be deterred! After returning the completed questionnaire, contect the clinic again to confirm that it was received. Push to get a first appointment as soon as possible, or at least an estimation of wait time. Ask to be put on a cancellation list as well.

2. Go to your first appointment. You will probably be meeting with an intern, a person who completed a graduate degree in clinical psychology or similar. The person will ask you some questions about your life as it relates to gender. They will ask what brings you to the clinic. You will say that you want surgery funded by OHIP. (CAMH can be an avenue to hormone therapy as well, but this is generally not recommended because it doesn’t save you any money and there are much faster options available for getting on hormones.) They will look at whether you meet the [criteria for surgery approval](http://www.camh.ca/en/hospital/care_program_and_services/hospital_services/Pages/gid_criteria_hormone_surgery.aspx). This may include documentation of Gender Role Experience (GRE), which is the new incarnation of the old Real-Life Experience (RLE) policy. Bring documents showing your legal name change, identification in your new name, school transcripts, pay stubs, and record-of-employment if you have them. When your appointment is over, the person you saw will meet with other doctors at CAMH to discuss your readiness for surgery. If they think everything looks good, you will be given a Potential Surgery Approval Appointment. If they have some concerns, they will meet with you again to tell you what you can do to address those concerns before moving on with surgery approval. Continue to call or email to ask about getting a next appointment, because they are slow with this and pushing them can help speed things up.

3. At the Potential Surgery Approval Appointment, you will show up prepared to discuss three specific things: your knowledge about the surgery you’re seeking, your awareness of the risks, and your plans for recovery (including support from family or friends). You will meet with two different doctors, possible on two different days, to discuss these three things. This is required because OHIP wants letters of recommendation from two different doctors. Very likely, if you’re at this stage, both doctors will happily recommend you for surgery funding. See the exact instructions for this appointment here: [FTM top surgery and hysterectomy](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/67321046/CamhTopHysto.pdf), [FTM bottom surgery](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/67321046/CAMH_lower_appt.PDF).

4. The two doctors you saw will each deliberate your case, and likely recommend funding for your surgery to the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care. The Ministry can take several months to respond, but when they do they usually approve it. You will receive a letter in the mail saying that you’ve been approved for your specific surgery. The funding has limitations—it can only be used for the stipulated surgeons and procedures, and within a certain time period, usually 24 months. (Exception: For hysterectomy, you will not receive a letter in the mail. You will be referred directly to a surgeon, who will contact you with an appointment for consultation).
You will contact the surgeon to start setting up your surgery. You will mention that it’s being funded by OHIP. 

### Choice of Surgeon 
Hysterectomies funded by OHIP must be performed in Ontario. CAMH usually refers people to Dr. Lisa Allen at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto. She is very experienced in laparoscopic hysterectomies, and has operated on many trans men. Top and bottom surgeries, however, come with some choice of surgeon. OHIP and CAMH have a strong relationship with the [Centre Métropolitain de Chirurgie](http://grsmontreal.com/) in Montreal, with Drs. Brassard and Bélanger. They perform forearm phalloplasty and metoidioplasty, while Dr. Bélanger performs the top surgery alone. They are the easiest surgeons to go to if you’re getting OHIP funding, because the Montreal clinic is very familiar with the process. It is possible to go to other surgeons, but possibly more difficult. The surgeon needs to be willing to work with OHIP to file paperwork, and to receive the payment after the surgery is performed. In the past, people have successfully gone to Drs. Crane, Meltzer, and Monstrey among others, mainly for bottom surgery, so if there is already a relationship in place with OHIP, then arranging your surgery will be easier. If you are considering going somewhere other than Montreal, bring this up at your appointments at CAMH. See more on choice of surgeon [here](http://www.camh.ca/en/hospital/care_program_and_services/CATS_centralized_assessment_triage_and_support/Documents/FAQ_GIC_surgery.pdf).

### Additional Costs 
OHIP does not cover the cost of transportation or the cost of surgery letters, should your surgeon charge for those. With the exception of the Montreal clinic (and possibly other clinics for bottom surgery), OHIP does not cover the cost of lodging accommodations. Consider this if your surgeon requires you to remain in the area for some time post-op. If there's a chance you will need to return to your surgeon for a revision later on, consider that travel cost.

OHIP is very specific about what procedures they will and will not fund. In the case of FTM top surgery, OHIP will pay for the mastectomy (removal of breasts) but not for chest contouring (the creation of a male chest appearance, including nipple grafts). If you go to Dr. Bélanger in Montreal, the entire top surgery is paid for, but with any other surgeon, you may need to pay out-of-pocket for chest contouring. OHIP will pay a non-Montreal surgeon up to $600 for the mastectomy.

### How Long Will This Take?

With the CAMH clinic continually understaffed and waitlists long, it’s hard to say how long it will take for you to get approved for surgery. Continue to call or email the clinic administrator to inquire about your next appointment, as this can speed things up. Getting the first appointment is the hardest because current patients have priority; follow-up appointments usually take just a couple of months. But don’t count on getting your surgery done in a specific window of time. 

After you receive the approval in the mail you have two years from that date to have the surgery. If your surgery is multi-stage, two years may not be enough. If you need an extension of that two years, you can ask CAMH to make a recommendation for OHIP to extend your time limit.

### Additional Resources

* [CAMH Gender Identity Clinic website](http://www.camh.ca/en/hospital/care_program_and_services/hospital_services/Pages/gid_guide_to_camh.aspx) with ongoing policy updates

* [List](http://i.imgur.com/nfAeF3C.jpg) of procedures that can and cannot be insured by OHIP

* Several people have posted journals of their experiences with CAMH: [1](http://transontario.tumblr.com/), [2](http://a-mosaic.tumblr.com/tagged/camh), 

* Relevant threads: [1](http://www.reddit.com/r/ftm/comments/1n96pw/i_went_through_the_camh_process_to_get/), [2](http://www.reddit.com/r/asktransgender/search?q=camh&amp;restrict_sr=on&amp;sort=relevance&amp;t=all), [3](https://www.reddit.com/r/ftm/comments/47vahb/camhs_waiting_list_has_effectively_tripled_in_the/)